# Airbnb-Booking-analysis
## Project Summary
Airbnb stands for "Air Bed and Breakfast".Airbnb (ABNB) is an online marketplace that connects people who want to rent out their homes with people who are looking for accommodations in specific locales. The company acts as a broker and charges a commission from each booking. It has millions of listings covering more than lakhs of cities in more than 200 countries. It generates a large amount of data which needs to be analyzed to understand the business, improve decision making process, understand the behavior of hosts and guests to increase the chance of making a match between the host and guest to increase profitability of the business.
## Problem Statement
Many guests and hosts have used airbnb to expand on travelling possibilities and present a more unique personalized way of expriencing the world. Data analysis on millions of listings provided through Airbnb is a crucial factor for the company. These millions of listings generate a lot of data, these data contain information which can be used for security and buisness decisions. In this project we will analyze the Airbnb data of year 2019 which contains around 49000 observations and 16 columns which has a mix of numerical and categorical values. We will analyze this data to understand customer and providers behavior and performance on the platform, we will also develop some marketing initiatives and implementation of additional services for buisness growth.
## Tableau Dashboard Link:
https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/sai.keertan.patro/viz/Airbnb_2019dashboard/Airbnb2019NYC?publish=yes
